[DOC] Edit monitoring (#29)
Mirantis/mke-docs: content/docs/reference/monitoring/monitoring.md

# Monitoring

> This document provides guidance on setting up monitoring for your

Reviewer: Suggest losing this intro-ish sentence. as the heading does the same job, given the topic context.

Kubernetes clusters using Mirantis Kubernetes Engine (MKE) 4. 

> The monitoring setup is based on the [kube-prometheus-stack](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/kube-prometheus-stack),

Reviewer: Tap 'MKE 4' in front of 'monitoring'.

offering a comprehensive solution for collecting, storing, and visualizing metrics.

## Monitoring tools

> Descriptions for each of the monitoring tools that MKE 4 uses are
> available in the table below.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detail for the MKE 4 monitor tools is provided in the following table:

```

| Monitoring tool    | Default State | Configuration Key          | Description                                                                    |
|------------|---------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Grafana    | enabled       | `monitoring.enableGrafana` | Provides a web interface for viewing metrics and logs collected by Prometheus  |
| Prometheus | enabled       | -                          | Collects and stores metrics                                                    |

> | Opscare    | disabled      | `monitoring.enableOpscare` | (Future feature) Includes additional monitoring capabilities like Alertmanager |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Opscare    | disabled      | `monitoring.enableOpscare` | (Future feature) Supplies additional monitoring capabilities, such as Alertmanager |
```

### Grafana

> [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is an open-source platform for monitoring.
> It provides a rich set of tools for visualizing time-series data,
> including a variety of graph types and dashboards.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is an open-source monitoring platform that provides a rich set of tools for visualizing time-series data. It
includes a variety of graph types and dashboards.

```

> Grafana is enabled in MKE 4 by default and may be disabled through the configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana is enabled in MKE 4 by default and may be disabled through the MKE configuration file:
```

```yaml
monitoring:
  enableGrafana: true
```

> To access Grafana dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the Grafana dashboard:
```

1. Run the following command to `port-forward` Grafana:

    ```bash
    kubectl --namespace mke port-forward svc/monitoring-grafana 3000:80
    ```

> 2. Access Grafana dashboard through [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).
```

### Prometheus

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is an open-source monitoring and alerting

> toolkit designed for reliability and scalability. It collects and stores metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
toolkit that is designed for reliability and scalability. It collects and stores metrics
```

as time series data, providing powerful query capabilities and a flexible alerting system.

> To access Prometheus dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the Prometheus dashboard:
```

1. Run the following command to `port-forward` Prometheus:

    ```bash
    kubectl --namespace mke port-forward svc/prometheus-operated 9090
    ```

> 2. Access Prometheus dashboard through [http://localhost:9090](http://localhost:9090).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to [http://localhost:9090](http://localhost:9090).
```

## Opscare (Feature in progress)

[Mirantis Opscare](https://www.mirantis.com/resources/opscare-datasheet/) is

> an advanced monitoring and alerting solution. It enhances the monitoring
> capabilities of MKE 4 by integrating additional tools and features, such as
> [Prometheus Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an advanced monitoring and alerting solution. Once it is integrated, Mirantis Opscare will enhance the monitoring
capabilities of MKE 4 by incorporating additional tools and features, such as
[Prometheus Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager/).
```

> Future releases will include more integrations, such as a Salesforce-notifier component.

Reviewer: Suggest removing this line. Need to refrain from making promises for the future.

> Mirantis OpsCare is disabled by default and may be enabled through the MKE4 configuration.

Reviewer: Disabled by default, you will enable Mirantis Opscare through the MKE configuration file.
```suggestion
Disabled by default, you will enable Mirantis Opscare through the MKE configuration file.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Disabled by default, you can enable Mirantis Opscare through the MKE configuration file.
```
